---
title: Introduction
description: Docs intro
---

**A simulation is only as good as its data**

Fake data is hugely valuable for local development and testing, but
how do we obtain it, and how do we keep it fresh?

ðŸ¤” **Fixtures**, or static snapshots of realistic records keep a
shared resource of fake data, but maintaining them is a tedious game
of whack-a-mole field and id updates.

ðŸ§ **Factories** partially alleviate this problem by automating the
generation of your fixtures. As your schema evolves, you can change a
single factory rather than patch a thousand individual records. But a
schema defines more than just the shape of its records.  Just as
important, it also defines the _relationships_ between those records,
and factories don't help you there.

ðŸ¤© **Graphgen** is a whole-meal solution for creating complete
datasets that contain not only realistic records, but also realistic
_relationships_ between those records. Data generated by graphgen is
always valid, so for example, if an organization has many members,
then graphgen will always generate a realistic number of them.

## Getting started

Graphgen is available on both
[npmjs.org](https://npmjs.org/package/@frontside/graphgen) and
[deno.land/x](https://deno.land/x/graphgen), see the [installation
guide](installation) to get going.


### 1. Get the code

> Graphgen can be used in both Node and Deno, however most code examples will be
> for Node.

#### NPM

``` shellsession
$ npm i @frontside/graphgen
```

```typescript
import { createGraphGen } from "@frontside/graphgen";
```

#### Deno

```typescript
import { createGraphGen } from "https://deno.land/x/graphgen/mod.ts";
```

### 2. Create your world

Graphgen uses [GraphQL](https://graphql.org) to express the shape of the
generated data, including relationships. Create a `world.graphql` file and add a
type to it.

``` graphql
type Article {
  title: String!
}

type Author {
  name: String!
  articles: [Article] @size(mean: 5, max: 20)
}
```

### 3. Create your generator

``` javascript
import { readFileSync } from "fs";
import { createGraphGen } from "@frontside/graphgen"

const source = readFileSync("./world.graphql");

const graphgen = createGraphGen({
  source,
  sourcename: "world.graphql"
});
```

### 4. Generate realistic data

``` javascript
let author = graphgen.create("Author");
for (let article of author.articles) {
  console.log(`${author.name} wrote ${article.title}`);
}
```
